=Plate Layout=
A plate layout defines which wells are to be used for which dilution series and
for controls and such. A plate layout also contains calculation formulae for
wells (such as survial index) and for plates (for example variation for all
blanks).

==Creating a Plate Layout==
To create a plate layout right click on the folder named "Plate Layouts" or any
of it's subfolders and choose "Create Plate Layout", type a name in the
dialog and choose a plate type for the new plate layout. 

==Editing a Plate Layout==
By double clicking a plate layout the plate layout is opened in an editor where
well markers can be placed and calculation functions defined. Each well is
represented by a cell in the matrix.

===Defining what wells are to be used for===
There are 5 different markers that can be placed on wells:

; M1, M2, M3... : Substance marker, one number for each compound
; C1, C2, C3... 
: Control markers, different controls can be used for different part of the plate
; B             : Blank
; P             : Positive Control
; S             : Solvent

To add marker select one or many cells in the matrix, right click and left
click on appropriate action. The menu popping up on right click will change
depending on what you are right clicking so in order to remove a marker right
click on it and click on the corresponding action for removing it.

As markers are added to the platelayout so are a bunch of automaticly generated
plate functions. Among others functions for average of controls and average of
blanks. More about plate functions in the next paragraph.

===Writing Calculation Functions===
Calculation functions in Brunn comes in two flavours - for plates and for
wells. A plate function is a general function for the plate. It can for example
be mean value or variance for all blanks. A well function is a value directly
connected to a well, typical example is survival index (SI%). From the
beginning all wells have a well function raw() which gives the raw value for
them.

Below the matrix representing the wells in the plate layout editor are two tabs
named "Plate Functions" and "Well Functions". These are for creating the
calculation functions. To create a plate function right click somewhere in that
tab and click "Add function". In the dialog type a name, and the expression. It
is also possible to define an interval within which the plate function is
considered to have a good value.

There are a couple of convenience methods, and notations defined which are useful 
when writing calculation functions:

;sum    : Sum of the given values 
;avg    : The average of the given values 
;stddev : The standard deviation of the given values

It is also possible to give intervals of wells like method(well1:well2) so to
write a function that calculates the average over the raw values for wells A1,
A2, B1, B2 one could write avg(A1, A2, B1, B2) or avg(A1:B2).

Creating well functions is done in a similar way as a plate function. Start by
making sure that the "Well Functions" tab is selected, then select the wells
that should be given the new function (you don't have to write the same
functions once for each well if they are similar) and once right click
somewhere in the bottom half of the editor and then click "Add function". In
the dialog that pops up write a name (for example si%) and write the
expression. If you are doing multiple wells at once and you want to use each
wells raw value in the calculation you can reach it by using the variable well,
which will be converted into the variable holding the raw value for each well. 
So for example a typical SI% function using control group C1 could look like this:

100 * ( well - AVG_AllBlanks() ) / ( AVG_C1() - AVG_AllBlanks() ) 

Notice the references to the automatically generated methods AVG_AllBlanks()
and AVG_C1().
